For mainnet, it's recommended to use Cosmovisor to run your node. If you've not used it before, then run it during a testnet to check you can get it set up correctly.

Setting up Cosmovisor is relatively straightforward. However, it does expect certain environment variables and folder structure to be set.

Cosmovisor allows you to download binaries ahead of time for chain upgrades, meaning that you can do zero (or close to zero) downtime chain upgrades. It's also useful if your local timezone means that a chain upgrade will fall at a bad time.

Rather than having to do stressful ops tasks late at night, it's always better if you can automate them away, and that's what Cosmovisor tries to do.

---

# Install

First, go and get cosmovisor (recommended approach):

```shell
go install github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor@v1.0.0
```

Your installation can be confirmed with:

```shell
which cosmovisor
```

This will return something like:

```shell
/home/<your-user>/go/bin/cosmovisor
```

---

# Add environment variables to your shell

In the `.profile` file, usually located at `~/.profile`, add:

```shell
export DAEMON_NAME=chihuahuad
export DAEMON_HOME=$HOME/.chihuahua
```

Then source your profile to have access to these variables:

```shell
source ~/.profile
```

You can confirm success like so:

```shell
echo $DAEMON_NAME
```

It should return `sentinelhub`.

---

# Set up folder structure

Cosmovisor expects a certain folder structure:

```shell
.
├── current -> genesis or upgrades/<name>
├── genesis
│   └── bin
│       └── $DAEMON_NAME
└── upgrades
    └── <name>
        └── bin
            └── $DAEMON_NAME
```

Don't worry about `current` - that is simply a symlink used by Cosmovisor. The other folders will need setting up, but this is easy:

```shell
mkdir -p ~/.echelond/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
mkdir -p ~/.echelond/cosmovisor/upgrades

# Change Ownership of newly created folders
sudo chown -R whispernode:whispernode ~/.juno/cosmovisor
```

---

# Set up genesis binary

Cosmovisor needs to know which binary to use at genesis. We put this in `$DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin`.

First, find the location of the binary you want to use:

```shell
which junod
```

Then use the path returned to copy it to the directory Cosmovisor expects. Let's assume the previous command returned `/home/your-user/go/bin/comdex`:

```shell
cp $GOPATH/bin/echelond ~/.echelond/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

Once you're done, check the folder structure looks correct using a tool like `tree`.

---

# Set up service

Commands sent to Cosmovisor are sent to the underlying binary. For example, `cosmovisor version` is the same as typing `junod version`.

Nevertheless, just as we would manage `junod` using a process manager, we would like to make sure Cosmovisor is automatically restarted if something happens, for example an error or reboot.

First, create the service file:

```shell
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/cosmovisor.service
```

Change the contents of the below to match your setup - `cosmovisor` is likely at `~/go/bin/cosmovisor` regardless of which installation path you took above, but it's worth checking.

```shell
[Unit]
Description=cosmovisor
After=network-online.target
[Service]
User=whispernode
ExecStart=/home/whispernode/go/bin/cosmovisor start
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=4096
Environment="DAEMON_NAME=echelond"
Environment="DAEMON_HOME=/home/whispernode/.echelond"
Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true"
Environment="DAEMON_LOG_BUFFER_SIZE=512"
Environment="UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP=true"
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Note also that we set buffer size explicitly because of a [live bug in Cosmovisor](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/8590) before version `v1.0.0`. If you are using `v1.0.0`, you may omit that line.

In addition, the same issue can be fixed by reducing the log via env variable. If you are unsure, ask on Discord.

---

# Start Cosmovisor

Finally, enable the service and start it.

```shell
sudo -S systemctl daemon-reload
sudo -S systemctl enable cosmovisor 
sudo systemctl start cosmovisor
```

Check it is running using:

```shell
sudo systemctl status cosmovisor
```

If you need to monitor the service after launch, you can view the logs using:

```shell
journalctl -u cosmovisor -f
```

<br>
